From YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P8BJpIr0CqI

What is the commission split
    don't worry about it being low at first, the broker is paying for the office, training, licensing and other fees. Give them their fair due.
    60-40 is a general split should be around there

Ask about training and support
    Are they going to support you and offer training?

Don't wait until you have license to start interviewing brokers.
    Most are eager for new recruits, unlike regular job, you interview brokers.

Do they have a strong internet presence?
    Social media
    Online reviews
    Are agents personal website linked with that broker?
    You need to build your brand, not your broker. Have your own website

What are the fees?
    What fees are specific to them? Which aren't

Brokerage size
    generally about the people not the size
    a large brand might help with name recognition
        might help with networking
        might have good training
        good for leads
        bad because you are in a cookie cutter process
        numbers game approach
    a small Brokerage
        specialize in specific market
        more interest in specific agents to be successful
        fewer leads, but fewer agents
        can go for creative ideas to grow business

Facility
    are they astetically pleasing?
    parking for agents and clients?
    offer size for your office, computer equipment, after hours

Location
    how often are you going into the office

training
    how to fill out and explain all the forms
    how do they train?
    ask to sit on training class

mentor program
    generally it costs for this personal one on one attention
    meet that person.

Management support
    how many agents does the manager manage? over 50 is a red flag
    ask an agent that works there how accessible the broker is.

Administrative support
    Who does the paperwork?

Culture
    want to feel like you're part of a bigger picture
    use intuition on this

Specialized
    What are their specialties

reputation
    how long do agents stay with Brokerage

Referrals
    how do referrals get delegate

How are teams structured?

How many deals are the top producers doing?

What's the leadership like?

Non-competing broker

in person availability, in person training, on going. ask to visit before you join

look for company with large market share





