Overview
    Model success
        after modeling use creativity off of model
        Natural ability will eventually hit ceiling
        models will have ceiling use creativity and improve the model
    Three L's
        Leads
        Listings
        Leverage
    Leads
        Everyone has two jobs, their job and Leads
    Listings
        lessor amount of time to work = higher productivity
        can have 2x as many
        marketing is more effective
        Listings generate leads of buyers
    Leverage
        Time /= Money Better formula is Max Money / hour
        Limited amount of time and effeciency
        Leverage tilts time money into your favor.
            People
                Most important for leverage, people can create tools and systems
            Systems
            Tools
    Four stages of growth
        Think
        Earn
        Net
        Receive
Mythunderstandings
    I can't do it
        You wont know your limits until they are pushed
    It can't be done in my market
        Follow a model from a market where it did work
    It'd take too much time and effort
        More time wont equal more success, when you're as far as you can go, turn to leverage.
    I'll lose money
        Don’t pay for a second of anything until you’re sure the first one is producing great results!
        Risk is how well you control costs and costs producing results
    My clients will only work with me
        They don't want you, they want the standards you represent
        systems also need standards
            Think disney, ritz carlton etc.
    Having a goal but not realizing it is a bad thing
        failure always precedes success
        if it's to be it will be me
Think a Million
    When designing compensation, think long term where your employee can reach large volume of sales
    Study Real Estate
    Nine ways
        Foundational
            Think powered by a big why
                have purpose, what's the motivation
                money is going to be a by-product of your goals
                end goals
            Think big goals and big models
                big Goals is about having big habits with the end in mind
                begin with habits of millionaires so you don't have to relearn habit

        Supportive
            Think possibiliites
                comes down to affirming  do you think it's possible?
            Think action
                shut up, get up, giddy up
            Think without fear
                "setbacks happen"
            Think progress
                breakthroughs com through effort and persistence
                quality comes through quantity
            Think competitively and strategically
                be competitive like a board game
                People who live by the rules live in a literal world. Strategic thinkers are exercising their creativity and living outside those limitations.
                    LOW ACHIEVER : Can we do that?
                    HIGH ACHIEVER : Why? Did someone say we couldn’t
            Think standards
                holding yourself and others accountable
                Experience shows that hiring an effective assistant should easily double your sales volume.
            Think service
                Purpose
                    They know why they should be hired, articulate it on command
                    Most money, shortest amount of time, least hassle
                Value Proposition
                    Details what services will be provided
                    10 areas
                        SEE IMAGE p95 
                Fiduciary
                    Placing clients interest above your own
    Three L's of REA
        Illustrated as the 20% of the pareto principle
        Leads
            Lead receiving vs lead generating
            Leads are forfront of the business
            Always keep leads on, keep the best, refer the results
        Listings
            Signage for marketing
            Direct mail marketing
            Can advertise through newspapers, magazines MLS
            Better scheduling
            Less time in market
            Can handle more volume
            Frontend pricing, better knowledge of market
            More opportunities for a twofer
        Leverage
            Hire people when you need it
                Who is going to do it -People
                How will they do it? -Systems
                What will they do it with? -Tools
            After you've experienced great, good isn't good enough
            Systems are repeatable tasks, administrative can help create them
            Over time, your people can choose and implement tools
            Hire incrementally
    Eight goal categories
        Everyone on team needs to know score and stats at all times.
            Expenses, profit, market share, ytd, next years goals
            Must know goals and actuals
        Numbers / goals to track
            Leads
                how many are there and where are they coming from
                which ones produce the most per dollar?
            Listings
                Second most important number 
            Contracts Written
                track total number of contracts, gross income, buyers and sellers
            Contracts closed
                same as contracts written
            Money
                gross closed income, expenses, net, compensation aka take home pay
            People
                Recruit
                    who do I need and what will they do?
                    where will I find them?
                Training
                    How will I teach them what to do and how to do it well
                Consulting
                    How are they held accountable, supported
                    Even before you need people, keep this placeholder for your goals so when you do need to hire, you have it in place
                    set goals for these categories
            Systems/Tools
                First hire will help set up systems
                Job descriptions are important to establish how the new hire will be sucessful
                S/T take time to research and create, should be a part of your goals.
            Personal Education
                What knowledge do I need, what skills do I need?
                What knowledge and skills do my staff need?
        Examples
            How many leads must I generate this year, month, week to reach my three year and someday goals
            How many listing must I generate...
        Set up these categories once, and update them as needed
Earn a Million
    The difference between top performers and everyone else is purposefully choosing big models
    Four models
        Economic
            Gross revenue, expenses, net
            Focus on numbers you must hit
                Sellers listing appointments * Conversion rate = sellers listed
                Listings taken * conversion rate = sellers sold 
                sellers sold * avg. sells price 
                avg. sells price -  seller sold volume
                SSV * commission = gross revenue from sellers
                (do same  for buyers)
                - expenses
                = Net income see image page 131
            Focus on appointments
            Focus on conversions
                master your scripts and dialog
        Lead generating
            invest in your name and presence 
            More important than creativity is frequency and consistency. go for sheer volume
            1. Prospecting and marketing. See image 138
            Make a written list of your marketing plan 
                Public group
                Target group is people you don't know but would like to do business with
                Met group is people you've met. launch more directed marketing at this group
                Allied group is people you will do business or regularly do business with
                    all the regular marketing plus meetups for parties or meals
                    most influential see once a month
                    Educate, ask for help, reward
                        Educate you are good at what you do, and you prefer referrals
                        Know anyone buying or selling a home
                            Scripts and dialogs will do the most here
                        Treat referral source better than referral. Reward correct behavior
                    Allied Resource Referral Generating Program - see image 141
                        Establish Database. Public, Partners, Vendors, Other realtors
                        Make systematic personal contacts, direct mail, call, drop by, lunch, party
                        Systematic follow handwritten notes, swag, endorsement letters
                        Provide exceptional customer service, caring attitude, communicate, consistency through systems
                        Implement a client appreciatioin program, so something special systematically
                            Go the extra mile every month
            2. Set up database and feed it
            your database is your business
            People in service industry sells staff, systems and customer base
            Database consists of Met, haven't met
                yeilds new, repeat, and referral business 
            Prospecting (met) doesn't yeild enough leads
            Marketing is highly leveraged, but not protected against market shifts
                Have a systematic marketing-based lead-generation model enhanced by Prospecting
            Don't let the leads shrink
            3. systematically market to your Database
                Approach contact as systematically to make sure it's gets done
                See image page 145
                Three methods of touch
                    8x8
                        Everyone in met group, 1 / week. for 8 weeks
                        meaningful contact. Calls, letters, cards
                            1 letter, market report, brochure and business cards
                            2 send a recipe card, inspirational card, community calendar, market stats
                            3 same as week 2
                            4 telephone call, ask for referral
                            5 free report
                            6 real estate investment or house maintenance tip
                            7 swag
                            8 phone call
                    33 touch
                      use on met group
                      Spend time every week on this effort
                        18 touches - emails, mailings, letters, cards, drops off
                        8 touches thank you, thinking of you cards
                        3 telephone cards
                        2 birthday cards
                        2 touch mothers/fathers day
                        Emails are convenient but less personal and you can ask did you get the card I sent?
                        Every 6 people in met column and 33 touch will net 1 sale.
                            half of these sales will be repeat, the other referral
                            met contacs is the most cost-effective form of lead generation
                    12 direct
                        How you work with havent met
                        farm area/ other demographic groups you want to work with
                        Highly leveraged, thousands contacted for same effort
                        Conversion ratio is about 50 to 1.
                Seller Listings
                    This leads to buyer listings so focus on seller listings
                    1 to 1 + relationship
                    Marketing plan 14 steps
                        see image page 151
                    Need to master scripts to make this sucessful
        Budget Model
            Cost vs investment
                Investment is for every dollar you get some multiple of a dollar back
                Three key areas of Budget
                    Lead with revenue
                        don't go into debt, keep startup costs small 
                    Red light green light
                        don't worry about the amount of money you're spending, be concerned about the results per dollar spent.
                        keep fixed costs low as possible. Leases, salaries, rent.
                        In face of revenue shortfall, cut fixed costs, not lead generation.
                    Stick to Budget
                        Percentages are pretty stable. Determine what these are 
        Organizational model
            When you feel overwhelmed for time, it's time to hire someone 
            First person is administrative assistant
            Second is Talent. You'll train and challenge them to grow.
            An administrative assistant can help create a system. They can know you better than you know your self
            Recognize talent by how they talk, they seek challenge and achievment.
            To get the most out of talen you have to train and consult them
                Train for knowledge and skills
                Consult for Accountablility
            Avoid sea gull management
                no training, swoop in, make noise, poop on people, fly off.
                over time, you don't need to micromanage people
                if you have to micromanage people, they might not be motivated enough on his own
                    This leads to hover mode where they have to run every single decision past you.
            Ten principles for empowering people
                tell people what responsiblities are, get agreement.
                give authority equal to their assigned responsibilties
                set standards and guidelines
                provide training that will enable them to met standards
                hold accountable, define consequences
                provide weekly feedback on their performance
                recognize for achievements (public praise, privately correct)
                Trust them to grow into self leadership
                give them permission to failure
                treat with dinity and respect
            Accountablility
                consulting begins with specific annual, monthly and weekly goals
                see image 167
                Weekly team meeting, weekly private meetings
                If problem arises
                    get agreement that problem exists
                    get hers and your perspective
                    depending, you may need to discuss consequences if things don't change 
                    Seek agreement on what you both want to see happen
                    short term goal put in writting
                    ASk questions like how can we solve this problem?
                Two types of "d" as in Drive
                    Leadership D - "D gets things done"
                    Business D - powerful tools and systems
                    as business matures, the business drive matures also.
    The Millionaire REA models
        Analysing cash flow 
        Gross Commission income 6%
        - cost of sales 3% to sellers agent 
        - operating expenses, rent salaries advertising
        net income (1,000,000)
        So start at the goal and work backwards
        Example numbers
            320 closes sales avg.250k each
            2.4 M Gross
            -1.4 M Cost
            60 seller appointment/leads
            60 buyer appointments/buyers            
            30 seller listing appt. per month
            30 buyer listing appt per month
            20 seller listings
            16 buyer listings
            14 sellers sold
            14 buyers sold
    Marketing based Prospecting enhanced
        Marketing is leveraged, prospecting is proactive
        Lead generation
            Net 320 sales = 960 people in met database, 8000 in haven't met.
            costs
                met 99$ per sale, haven't met 300 per sale.
                see image 189
            Focus on listings
                less expensive to obtain
                sellers begat buyers and new sellers
    Budget model
        Should be able to explain every category of the budget and what the expected turn around if from it.
        Cost of sales
            Handled by buyer/seller specialists
                conver leads to appointments
                make listing presentation
                securing seller listings
        Operating expenses
            called the big two, make up 40% of the budget
                salaries
                lead generation
    REA Organizational Model
        see image 197,200,202 <------
        1. administrative
            marketing, administrative, transaction, listing telemarketer, lead cordinator, assistant, runner
            hire first,maybe second and third
        2.buyer agent
            hire only after you have more buyers than you can handle
        3. seller agent
        The goal is not to run a successful business, but to have someone else run your successful business
        Where to find talent
            Ads 
            Allied resources
            Job Websites
            Temp agencies
            other agents
            real estate schools
        compensation options
            Salary
                36-50k
                Be competitive in your market
            Commission
                sales - 50% split 
            Pay expenses
            bonuses
                yearly
            profit sharing
                don't pay more than 50 of Salary
            Retirement plan
            insurance benefits
                use Peo
                90 waiting period
            Vacation and sick time
                wait at least 6 months
                offer leave without pay before then 
            Equity
            See image 213
Net a million 
    Focus on lead generation no matter how big your business gets
    at this stage focus on marketing, or hiring prospectors
    Tracking your top agents, use database
    Don't chase gimmicky marketing, always start with tried and true.
    winning is a habit
    Listings must be used to generate buyers
    Making time to learn and implement RTCK
        recruit, train, consult, keep your top talent
    Leads tracking process -CRM needs these fields
        Who is it and how do we contact her
        Where did lead come from
        Who will follow up on lead
        Where is it stored
    Protect lead generation time 
        highest ROI on time you can have
        Always start with tried and true
            have plan budget message and target audience
        pay attention to what works well in your market 
        calculate cost per lead, don't jump the gun on results, they take time.
    Listings